Aalborghuskollegiet A-Z
(English)






A
Articles of association: If you are interested in reading the articles of association of the tenants meetings, you have to contact either the president, the vice president or find them under ‘files’ on our facebook group. 


AKU: Information on Aalborghus Kollegiet on AKU-Aalborg. (Bør opdateres på AKU! - billeder outdated, Freedom festival, specificer hvilke butikker eventuelt.)


The property:
Aalborghus Kollegiet is located on a sideway to Sohngårdsholmsvej, where busses goes to and from the city center and AAU. The immediate closeness to the city center and AAU makes the area attractive to students. Few minutes walk from the dorm there is grocery stores, pharmacy, pizza place, fitness etc. 
The Aalborghus collegium is a dormitory in two floors with 107 rooms and 4 apartments distributed in 8 halls and a portner which has an apartment with 2 rooms and 3 rooms with a shared kitchen, shower and a toilet. The rooms has own entrance which points to a shared hall. 


All the 11-14 rooms share a big kitchen whereas certain expectations is expected from you as a new tenant. It is expected that you as a tenant in the Aalborghus collegium is socially minded and appreciates active participation in the social life.


The tenants in the dorm has the following message to new tenants:
“We live in a little solidary community where there shall be room for everyone. We therefore see it as unnecessary to remind people to clean after themselves or treat our common tings and areas with concern and respect. Aalborghus is a very social collegium with a lot of events which gives opportunities to meet many new people and strengthen ones network as a student in Aalborg. We also takes great pride in being an ‘old school’ collegium’ - meaning that we are a traditional collegium. 
Of the social events we hold we can mention friday bars, the yearly Tour de Cuisine with the whole dorm, Tour de Chambre every semester with the hall you’ll live in, the yearly festival “Freedom Festival”, common dinners and general cozyness and fun in the common areas. 
We still have a lot of good facilities, traditions and we wish to take care of these in the best college spirit. 
	



B
Balconies: There are two balconies in the dorm. The little one is at the end of green2 and the big one is at the end og red2 (The barbeque on the big balcony is only for red2). These two balconies can be used by any tenant as long as they clean up after themselves. The same applies for those terraces that exist by both buildings. 


Bonfires: In the yard in front of the middle building between block 1 and 2 there is a campfire site which all can use. As a lot of rooms point towards the bonfire site it’s important that you as a tenant remember to take this into account. Write in the facebook group vefore you light the bonfire as such everyone will have a chance to close their windows. Make sure to always extinguish the fire properly before you leave it. Don’t burn furniture. Only use the wood we have been allocated by the college host. Temporary rules can be made for use of the bonfire - ask the college host, the president or the vice president if there are special rules in the period you want to have a bonfire - if it isn’t in these papers. 


**Temporary bonfire rules 2020**
* Make an event on the facebook group of the dorm the day before. 
* Write on the facebook group and the event at what time the bonfire will be lit.
* The bonfire shall be extinguished at 12 at midnight during weekends to make sure the bonfire is out before everybody goes to bed/gets too drunk.
* Calmness outside at 1 at night (Consider the non-participating people both before and after).
*  No burning of treated wood or wet wood as it smells and can bother tenants who aren’t participating.
* Those who lits the bonfire are responsible for making sure there will be cleaned up afterwards: This consists of removing cigarette buds, collecting bottle caps, utensils, wood in the yard, bottles, cans and other things left on the terrace and in the grass. 
* Remove furniture from the grass (table/benches, camping chairs etc.).


Bar chairman: As bar chairman you are a part of the collegiate council in the dorm. You are responsible for hosting friday bars in the dorm. This is done by setting aside days, making an event on the facebook group of the collegium and delegating the fridaybars among the kitchens - who then is responsible for hosting the fridaybar. Besides this you’ll be responsible for the economy of the bar and delegating the job of shopping for the bar to the responsible kitchen. As bar chairman you should also participate in the monthly tenant meetings. Moreover the bar chairman shall assist/be available if anyone wants to host an event for other tenants and has questions. 


Beer sales: In your kitchen there is the option to buy cheap beer. Ask those whom you share a kitchen with for more information as prices vary from each kitchen.


Bike cleaning: Every semester bikes are left at the collegium. This is why every semester we put strips on all the bikes which by a certain time frame you’ll have to take off. If the strips aren't removed before 14 days the bike will be put in our bike trash pile and later be sent to the landfill. There will be warnings on this in our facebook group when it is relevant. 


Bike repair shop: Is located in the basement of block 1 (by the big sliding door). (Here you’ll need a special key - see keyholders). Remember to clean up after yourself.


Block 1 and 2: Kollegievej 4 = block 1, Kollegievej 6 = block 2


C 
Cashier: The cashier is responsible for the finances of the collegiate association and is a member of the collegiate council. As a cashier you have access to the bank accounts of the collegiate council. Once a year the financial accounting has to be seen trough with two external representatives from the dorm. If it’s decided on tenants meetings to buy something you HAVE to give the receipts to the cashier so you as buyer can get the money. (ask the cashier for more information).


Cinema: Is placed in the middle building (You’ll need a special key - look at keyholders).


Cleaning: As tenants in Aalborghus Kollegium we all have a responsibility in participating in cleaning of all areas. This means that you are both responsible for cleaning of your own room as well as participating in the weekly kitchen guard where the cleaning goes by round from room to room. There is a common cleaning list for all kitchen which helps us in having the same standard. 2-4 times a year all kitchens has to do the semester cleaning; the kitchens gets announcements from the collegiate host when this is due. 


Furthermore, twice a year, every kitchen is responsible for cleaning a certain area of the kollegium. The kitchens claims which area they want to clean which afterwards is then checked by either the president, the vice president or the collegiate host.


Cleaning of washer/dryer room: Cleaning of washer/dryer room goes in shifts from kitchen to kitchen. This means that your kitchen is responsible for cleaning of the rooms every 4. week. All tenants on the hall has a duty to be a part of the cleaning.  


Collegiate association: All tenants are part of the association and pay through their rent an amount to the association every month.


Collegiate council: The collegiate council is made by the collegiate association and consists of a president, vice president, cashier, bar chairman and secretary. The purpose of the Collegiate Council is to take care of the interests of the tenants and serve as a communicator between the tenants and the board of director of the collegium. The Collegiate council hosts a meeting every month which kitchen representers HAS to participate in. Furthermore the rest of the tenants are more than welcome to attend. Every kitchen has one vote If something has to be voted on at a tenant meeting. 


Collegium host: Collegium host/caretaker has office in block/building 1/Kollegievej 4.


Common room: Is the big room in the middle building. This is where most tenant meetings are held and is also a gathering place for social events such as Friday bars etc.


Covid-19: Will be updated continuously
13.09.2020
 Corona test (positive/negative)
If anyone in your circle of friends, in your study or in your family is found infected, you need to be tested and as the least - inform your hall and others in the dorm you surround yourself with - this can eg be done by sharing it in our facebook group. 


If you have symptoms and/or suspicion you need to be tested and isolate yourself. Are you awaiting test results without having symptoms you should stay as little as possible on common areas. 


Are you testing positive it shall be shared by the whole dorm - either by making a post by yourself, contacting the collegium host (Steen), the president Nora or the vice president Tanja. That way everybody can be tested. When isolating yourself it means you cannot leave your room. The people from your hall then have to help you with food, shopping etc. 


We encourage everyone to talk about it in the kitchens as there can be people in the risk zone and you might want to take special precautions. Moreover we would like to encourage everyone to install the app ‘Smittestop’ from the health authorities. 


20.09.2020
We have today talked to the health authorities about events in the dorm. The following has been said: We are allowed to host friday bars if the following can be complied with.
* Table shall be places where it is possible to SIT with 1 meter distance to others. 
* Maximum of 50 people (If the room allows it). 
* If standing there shall be at least 4 sqm. per. person. 
* As we live with each other there is no need to wear a mask. 
* If you have symptoms you are not allowed to participate
* Only tenants at the dorm can participate


21.09. 2020
Due to the covid-19 situation in Aalborg right now we have chosen to do the following.
* We have taken most of the keys to the common facilities. These are the common facilities where it is difficult to comply with recommendations on distance and body fluids. You can still use the gym, the music room and the bike repair shop. However the gym will be limited to maximum 3 people at a time and 2 people in the music room. 
* All friday bars and bookings of the middle building will be cancelled until 4th. of october. 
* If you choose to host parties in your kitchens we encourage you to only invite people from your hall as there can be tenants who doesn’t want to use the kitchen if tenants arrive from other kitchens. That is why we encourage to use the big room in the middle building as it’s possible to keep good distance and it doesn’t bother people who aren’t participating.


Christmas dinner: The collegiate council encourages the different halls to host christmas dinner. Are you interested in hosting/planning a common christmas dinner you are welcome to get a hold of the bar chairman, the president or the vice president.
D 
Doors: All outer doors shall be kept closed all year even though it’s hot outside. This is because we are having issues with trespassers on out common areas outside and people using our paths when to the park. Keeping the doors shut/locked keeps unwanted people at bay.
E 
F 
Facebook groups: Aalborghus collegium has a facebook group which can be accessed by all tenants. Moreover every hall/kitchen has their own facebook group. On the big facebook group you’ll find events, practical information and keyholders. 


Facilities in the dorm: Music room, gym, guest room, cinema, middle building, sauna, bike repair shop, washing room, drying room, storage room, volleyball court, barbecue, parking lot, bicycle cellar.


Friday bar: Is held ca. 8 times a year - one time every month except January, June, July and August. The friday bar is held in the middle building where the bar has cheap prices (5-25 kr.) The bars are organised by the different kitchens and can also be organised across kitchens. To get more information ask the bar chairman.


Foreign students: In every hall there is living at least two non-danish students. Therefore you have to pay special attention to being inclusive as well as speaking english so everybody can be involved. Furthermore for the foreigners sake, we also draw attention to the fact that there is other non-danish students on the premise to whom you can bond with.
G 
General assembly: Is held every year in october or november. Extra ordinary general assembly can be held if a member wishes to resign.


Guest room: The guest room is in the portner building. You book the room by contacting one of the three people who lives in the portner. On the door to the guest room there is a calendar where you can make your booking. There are duvets and pillows and two single beds in the room. You have to bring your own sheets. The first night is 50 kr. and 30kr. for the following nights. The guest can use the toilet in the portner but NOT the shower or the kitchen. If your guest needs to use the shower the guest needs to use the one in your room. 


Gym: The gym can be used at all times however you can only listen to music on the stereo between 7 in the morning and 10 at night on weekdays and on the weekends between 9 in the morning and 1 at night.  
H 
I 
Instagram: We have an instagram account: “Aalborghuskollegiet”. 


International students: In every hall there is a minimum of two international rooms. Welcome them and take them to social events. We encourage to include the international students in everyday life by eg. speaking english to them. 
Internet: Every room has access to the internet through a LAN cable. If you want your own wifi you have to put a router up yourself. Sometimes the college host has an old router but there is no guarantee for this. 
J 
K 
Keyholder: As keyholder you are in the possession of the following keys. Tenants in the dorm can borrow the key and you will then be responsible for checking the room looks proper after use. As a reward you get a cut card to every Friday bar worth 15 kr. pr. key and an extra 5 kr. pr. key you are in possession of.
* Cafe key
* Sauna key
* Cinema key
* Bike repair key
* Music room key


Kitchens: Every kitchen has its own color and number. Kollegievej 4 (Green1, Blue1, Red1 and Gray1). Kollegievej 6 (Green2, Blue2, Red2, Gray2). 


Kitchen duty: Every week a new person in the hall has to do some extra tasks regarding keeping the kitchen clean. This area has its own special document which describes it more in depth or you can ask in your kitchen how it works. Are you one of those people who are less active in the dorm - you yourself are responsible to switch with another person from the hall if you are not home the week you are on kitchen duty.


Kitchen jobs: Kitchen representative, cashier/kitchen mama, kitchen duty, beer guy. 


Kitchen mama/cashier: Ask in your kitchen what this post contains as it varies between kitchens. But basically the tasks are as follows: The kitchen representative is the link between the kitchen and the collegiate council. The cashier in the kitchen is responsible for the finances of the hall (for some this also includes buying things such as spices, beer, common dinners etc.). Kitchen Mama is a job where one is responsible for making sure everything is in order in the kitchen; (not all hallways have this role).


Kitchen meetings: It is up to each kitchen to decide how and when kitchen meetings are held. Though it is recommended that you at least have 1 per semester. Kitchen meetings are a nice way to get to know each other and be in control of your common grounds so everybody feels good. 


Kitchen money: Every semester, 1500kr is set aside at the collegiate hose/caretaker to new equipment of the kitchens eg. new plates, pots and pans, glasses etc. When things are bought you put the money forward then give the receipt to the caretaker who then will refund you the money or transfer it to you all in regards to the amount spent.


Kitchen representative: Your job as kitchen representative is to participate in monthly meetings. The representative has on behalf of their kitchen right to vote on the meeting if anything has to be voted on. At the meeting there will be a free beer. If the kitchen representative can’t participate in a meeting it is the duty of the representative to find a replacement from their hall. Furthermore it is the responsibility of the representative to communicate any information between their kitchen and the collegiate council. If you no longer have time/wish to be a kitchen representative you have to make sure to pass on the duty. The Portner building shares a kitchen representative with Blue1.   
L 
Locked out: Do you happen to be so unlucky to lock yourself out from your room you need to contact the following number: insert number(mangler i den danske) . It costs ca. 350 kr. in cash which has to be paid when Falck/securitas comes and opens. 
M 
Mailbox: On Kollegievej 4 (block 1), the Collegiate Council has a mailbox. This mailbox can for example be used if you have anything you want to bring up in a meeting where you either want to be anonymous or you are not able to attend. 


Minute taker: As a minute taker you are responsible for taking notes at every tenant meeting. If one is hindered in participating the job has to be given on to someone else. Moreover, you are responsible for uploading the minutes to our facebook group. Due to the inclusion of everyone the minutes have to be written in english, so foreign tenants also can read them.
N 
Narcotics: All kinds of illegal drugs, smoking hashish etc. is forbidden at the dorm. Does it take place indoors you will in the worst case get evicted. 
O 
P 
Party: If there is a party in the middle building, the lawn, the rooms or kitchens you are asked to abide by the rules of the collegium on noise. This means being quiet between 10 at night and 7 in the morning on weekdays and between 1 at night and 9 in the morning during the weekends (look for more under Quiet). Those who are hosting the party are responsible for cleaning unless otherwise specified among themselves. If having kitchen parties/TDC please inform the kitchens above or under you. Always close doors and windows, and turn down the music volume in the kitchen/middle building if the party continues after 10/1 at night.


Posters: Hanging of posters on doors and windows that has nothing to do with the dorm is strictly prohibited. If posters are made in regards to an event of the dorm they shall be hung with a special tape which the caretaker/college host has.  


Portner: The portner building is the short building by block 1 (Kollegievej 4.) In the portner you’ll find the guestroom.


President: As president you collaborate with the vice president. Together you are responsible for a monthly meeting (february, march, april, may, september, october, november and december) and a yearly general assembly in october/november. Moreover you are to participate in 1-4 board meetings with the board of directors of the dorm. As president you are also to publish the financial accounting for the collegium when it is sign in the spring.
Written here are the tasks you are obliged to complete. If you want and have time/energy for it you can arrange events, make new ideas for the collegium.
Q 
Quiet: On weekdays (Sundays-Thursday) there has to be quiet from 10 at night to 7 in the morning. 
During weekends (friday and saturday) there has to be quiet from 1 at night to 9 in the morning. This does not mean that you have to be completely silent at 1, just that you should show consideration towards other tenants and show normal decency and good manners. 


At certain events which are held by/in collaboration with the tenant council (Freedom Festival/Summer Party, New Years Party, Tour de Collegium, Tour de Kitchen and friday bars) the set timeframes can be adjusted. Although there still has to be shown consideration towards the tenants who are not a part of the event.


Remember to close the doors and windows in the middle building at 10 in the evening on weekdays and 1 at night during the weekends.
R 
Rules of order: See bottom of this document (Hvorfor er de ikke bare heroppe?)
S 
Sauna: The sauna is only to be used on weekdays between 7-22 and on weekends 9-01. You can find the two key holders on the facebook group under ‘about’. Remember to clean after yourself as well as also use towels and bathing suits. If you are listening to music in the sauna you must take the above living tenant into consideration. If the sauna is used outside the above mentioned period of time - music is not allowed (men man må vel ifølge ovenstående slet ikke benytte saunaen efter de timer..så må man naturligvis heller ikke gå derind for at spille musik.? ;) )


Smoking: Smoking is only allowed outdoors. 


Social events: We are a very social kollegium and thereby we have several social events on the premise. 


* Tour de kollegie
* Tour de kitchen
* Tour de cuisine
* Friday bar (ca. once a month)
* Summer party/freedom? (står ikke i den danske)
* New years party 
* Movie night in our cinema
* Volleyball 
* Good times around the Bonfire
* Tenants meetings
* Board Game nights
* Barbeque nights
* Work days
* Cleaning Days
* Midsummer party (Sct. Hans). 
* Etc.


Sohngårdsholmspartken: Is the public park very close to the kollegium. 


Spotify: The Collegiate Council has our own spotify account which is connected to the Ipad in the middle building. We have three playlists where two of them are public and the third is open to suggest your own music. 


Party:
https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3uiqxKoTFa96k8tQMxJisp?si=BMUqQCxDTw-LLH1nZiuyTQ
Lounge:
https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1GFC3F9B7QUqolaH5gnoHu?si=FwXmKmUZQfK7sI9qXXvwFQ
Open playlist where everybody with the link can add music:
https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4dz6RIVrfIZRdUSPRPMTYA?si=0UYHMAawTLeppjQh5A1OyQ 
T 
Table tennis: Is available in the middle building
Table football: Is available in the middle building
TV Package: On the collegium we have decided to only have the TV package in the kitchens in favor of a lower rent as well as because most tenants use streaming services. 
U 
V 
Vice president: As vice president you collaborate with the president. Together you are responsible for a monthly meeting (february, march, april, may, september, october, november and december) and a yearly general assembly in october/november. Furthermore you have to participate in 1-4 yearly board meetings with the board of directors of the collegium. 


Written here are the tasks you are obliged to do. If you have spare energy/time and want to you can arrange events and make ideas for the collegium.
W 
Washer + dryer: Can be used with https://mywallet.dk/ where you can pay for a machine via SMS. The code which you need to text is written on the machine. You also need to supply your own detergent. Remember to collect your clothes as soon as it’s done. Ultimately your clothes can end up being thrown out if it has laid/hung for too long. 


The dryer can be used every day between 8-22. As there are rooms right above the washing rooms it is important that this is complied with.


Website: The Aalborghus collegium has its own website www.aabh.dk . (Er den ikke lukket? -eller altså den linker til fb gruppen) The website leads to different practical information. The website can be further developed if there is a need and someone volunteers to take care of it.


Wifi: There is shared wifi in the kitchens. Name: Aabh, Password: aalborghuskollegiet


Workdays: We have workdays 0-3 times a year in the collegium. On workdays we perform the projects which have been initiated at the tenant meetings. These projects could for instance be assembling tables/benches, cleaning, setting up our swimming pool etc. The Collegiate Council pays for food and a beer. Workdays are voluntary, however it’s a good way to meet people from the dorm who you don’t share a kitchen with. 
X 
Y 
Z


Rules of order: 
* Quiet on weekdays from 10 at night to 7 in the morning. 
* Quiet friday and saturday from 1 at night to 9 in the morning - with certain events the time can be changed. 
* Smoking is not allowed indoors - this also means in your own room
* Show consideration of other tenants
* Adhere to the kitchen duty.